# Class 17

## AWS API Gateway Overiew

1. What is Amazon API Gateway?

    * Allows users to define the HTTP endpoints of a REST API or WebSocket API and connect them with corresponding backend logic.
      * Also handles auth, access control, monitoring, and tracing of API requests.

2. Why is Amazon API Gateway an important part of the Serverless ecosystem?

    * Because allowing execution of code in response to HTTP requests allows it to tie together serverless services such as functions and API definitions.

3. How does API Gateway integrate with other AWS services?

    * It can utilize direct integrations within its user interface.  Lambda can also run functions to generate HTTP API responses.

  Source: [Serverless: Amazon API Gateway](https://www.serverless.com/guides/amazon-api-gateway)

## AWS API Gateway

1. What are the some benefits of using Amazon API Gateway?

    * Use to create REST APIs with HTTP APIs. Built-in, flexible security authorization controls.  Easy to monitor information metrics.

2. What two API types might you choose from?
    * REST and HTTP.  HTTP APIs are generally much cheaper and more frequently used.  REST APIs are good for API proxy functionality.

  Source: [Amazon: API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/)

## AWS DynamoDB Guide

1. What is DynamoDB?

    * It's a NoSQL database that's offered by AWS.

2. Under what circumstances would you recommend DynamoDB over MongoDB?

    * I'm not positive but I think if you're specifically using AWS services and you're dealing with smaller amounts of data; DynamoDB seems like the better option.

## AWS DynamoDB

1. Explain to a non-technical friend how DynamoDB works.

    * DynamoDB is a database storage system that is exclusively used in-tandem with other AWS services.

## Dynamoose

1. What is Dynamoose?

    * A modeling tool for DynamoDB similar to Mongoose.

2. What are some key features of Dynamoose?

    * Type safety
    * High level API
    * Easy to use syntax
    * DynamoDB Single Table Design Support
    * Ability to transform data before saving or retrieving items
    * Strict data modeling (validation, required attributes, and more)
    * Support for DynamoDB Transactions
    * Powerful Conditional/Filtering Support
    * Callback & Promise support
    * AWS Multi-region support

Source: [Dynamoose](https://dynamoosejs.com/getting_started/Introduction)
[Return to Table of Contents](https://haydencleaver.github.io/reading-notes/)