# Class 17

## AWS S3

1. What is Amazon S3?

    * Amazon Simple Storage Service.  It's an object storage service. (Files, images, test, variables, etc...)

2. Name some use cases for Amazon S3.

    * Back up/restore point for data, "data lake" to run AI/Machine Learning or other high performance applications that require analysis.

3. Name some benefits of using Amazon S3.

    * It's relatively low cost, scalabale, and secure.

## AWS Lambda

1. What is AWS Lambda?

    * A serverless computing process that can basically run your code on its own servers so you don't need to build framework or worry about your own servers.

2. Name some use cases for AWS Lambdas.

    * Data processing and scalable APIs.
      * It's typically suited for tasks that run for short times and that are generally self contained (as cost is computed by RAM x time running)

3. Describe “serverless” to a non-technical friend.

    * They aren't actually serverless, your code just is compartmentalized on someone elses' server where the code is then executed. It means that you don't have to worry about server creation, updates, and maintenance; but obviously you have to pay for that space.

  Source: [AWS Lambda](https://www.serverless.com/aws-lambda)

## Content Delivery Network (CDN)

1. What is a CDN?

    * A Content Delivery Network is a group of servers that work together to provide delivery of internet content.  They're geographically distributed in order to provide a data to their assigned regions.

2. How does a CDN work with relation to the website visitor?

    * The visitor will request something from the server which then relays the request to the server nearest the visitor, which will supply them with cached data and any smaller amounts of new data pulled from the origin server.  This speeds up load times based on location of visitors.

3. What are the benefits of employing a CDN?

    * More difficult to attack with DDOS.  Good for larger companies that have a large amount of traffic spread out geographically.

  Source: [CDN](https://cyberhoot.com/cybrary/content-delivery-network-cdn/)

[Return to Table of Contents](https://haydencleaver.github.io/reading-notes/)