# Class 19

## AWS SQS vs SNS

1. What is the difference betweeen SQS and SNS?
    * SNS is a publish-subscribe system for messages. Messages are pushed to subscribers as they're sent by a publisher to SNS.
    * SQS is a queue system.  Messages are not automatically pushed to a receiver.  They're sent when a receiver polls SQS.
2. What are some use cases for both SNS and SQS?
    * SNS:
      * Sending large batches of messages at once.
      * Processing one message by multiple receivers in different ways.
    * SQS:
      * Need a queue system
      * Only one subscriber/receiver is needed.
      * Unpairing applications so they can run asynchronously.

## AWS SNS and SQS

1. Describe how to use SQS and SNS in a “fanout” pattern.

    * Using SNS to pass a message along to multiple subscribers, including some SQS queues which hold the message until polled by their receiver.

2. Explain how “push notifications” work, using SNS.

    * Push notifications are messages sent by a publisher to any subscribers to the system. 

## SQS and SNS Basics

1. How might a large scale, distributed application make use of a Queue system like SQS?

    * Forcing messages into a queue system allows you to create a bottleneck for your app to prevent the system from being overwhelmed by messages.  Then the queue can be used to process messages in order.

    * Allows more in-depth control of processing messages, such as creating 'dead letter queues' for corrupted messages, or enabling encryption for one or more queues.  

[Return to Table of Contents](https://haydencleaver.github.io/reading-notes/)