# Class 26

## React Intro

1. What are the building blocks of a React app?
    - Elements and Componenets

2. What is the difference between an element and a React component?
    - Elements are the smallest 'blocks' of a React app and represent a singlular object.  They cannot be changed after being created. Components are like functions; they can accept an input (known as props) and return a React element after performing some action upon the props.

3. What are some advantages of React’s component based architecture?
    - Componenets are reuseable, flexible, and make it easier to compartmentalize tasks.

## Introducing JSX

1. What is JSX and why do we use it?
    - It's a syntax extension for JavaScript that describes UI elements.  It makes it easier to create and work with the UI within JavaScript.

2. Describe the process of embedding JavaScript expressions in JSX.
    - You can use any JavaScript expression inside a pair of curly braces within a JSX expression.

3. Is it safe to embed user input in JSX? Explain.
    - At least as far as injection and XSS attacks, yes.  The default setting for the React DOM is to escape any values embedded within JSX before they're rendered.

  Source: [ReactJS](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)

## Rendering elements

1. Explain what a React Component is to a non-technical friend.
    - React Componenets are reuseable segments of code that can be used to create elements.

2. Describe mutability and React Components, specifically, how is the UI updated?
    - Componenets and their information can be altered (One-way, from parent to child), and the UI is updated when component state is altered.
3. If changes are made to the UI, what does React update?
    - React will update the DOM when the state or props of a compenent is changed.

[Return to Table of Contents](https://haydencleaver.github.io/reading-notes/)