# Class 13

## Web Sockets and Chat

1. Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does.

  * The chat example uses socket.io to create a connection that allows real-time chat messages between the users connected to it.

2. What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?

  * We are getting console.logs of users connecting and disconnecting on the back end.

3. Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone. What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?

  * `socket.broadcast.emit();`

## Socket.io Tutorial

1. What is a room and how might a room be useful?

  * A room is a subchannel within a server that sockets can join.  They can be used to send and receive information unique/relevant to the sockets contained within them without flooding the whole server with messages.

2. How do you join a room?

  *   > `io.on("connection", (socket) => {`
      > `socket.join("some room");`
      > `});`

3. how do you leave a room?

  * > `io.on("connection", socket => {`
    > `socket.on("disconnecting", () => {`
    > `console.log(socket.rooms);`
    > `// the Set contains at least the socket ID`
    > `});`
    >
    > `socket.on("disconnect", () => {`
    > `});`
    > `});`

Code Source : [Socket.io Docs](https://socket.io/docs/v4/rooms)

## Socket.io vs Web Sockets

1. What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?

  * A namespace is a channel that "divides" the server space into different areas to allow for multiple simultaneous operations.

2. Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)

  * Event Handlers
  * Middleware
  * Rooms

3. Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces

  * You could use it to create an "authorized users only" set of logic so that things related to those users can only be enacted from that namespace.

Source : [Socket.io Docs](https://socket.io/docs/v4/namespaces/)

[Return to Table of Contents](https://haydencleaver.github.io/reading-notes/)