# Class 12

## Web Sockets

1. What is a Web Socket?

  * Web socket is a full-duplex communication protocol.

2. Describe the Web Socket request/response handshake and what happens once the connection is established.

  * The client sends a handshake request and starts with HTTP to establish a connection.  Once made, communication shifts to WebSocket protocol that allows for full-duplex transmission.

3. Web Sockets provide a standardized way for the server to send content to a client without first receiving a ____ from that client.

  * Request

## Socket.io Tutorial

1. What does the event handler io.on() do?

  * handles connection/disconnection, events in it, using the socket object, and etc...

2. Describe some possible proof of life or proof that the code works as expected

  * We can use console messages to log when a connection to a socket happens like in the tutorial example, or we can send an actual message to the client.

3. What does socket.emit() do?

  * It can be used to create and push custom events to or from the client.

## Socket.io vs Web Sockets

1. What is the difference between WebSocket and Socket.IO? (think Git and GitHub, or OAuth and Auth0).

  * WebSocket is the actual communication protocol that provides the capabilty to use full-duplex transfers.  Socket.IO is a library that provides a structure and framework to use WebSocket.
  
2. When would you use Socket.IO?

3. When would you use WebSockets?

## OSI Model Explained

1. What are a couple of key takeaways from this video?

## TCP Handshakes Explained

1. Translate the gist of this video to a non-technical friend


[Return to Table of Contents](https://haydencleaver.github.io/reading-notes/)