# Class 16

## AWS EC2

1. What is an EC2 Instance?

    * It's a virtual server that runs on the AWS framework.

2. Name 2 use cases for EC2.

    * Running apps/servers on a cloud service for low cost
    * Useful for handling high performace requirements.

3. Provide 1 reason to use ECS instead of Heroku

    * AWS appears to have better scalability if your company is large.

## EC2 For Humans

1. Where can we find EC2 on the AWS Console?

    * It's in the compute section on AWS.

2. Explain the general difference between T2 Micro and XL.

    * They would both be burst instance types where you can "store" periods of inactivity and use the unused memory/data during spikes of high activity.  The micro size would generally have less memory and processing power than the XL size.

3. Explain a “Compute Cycle” to a non-technical friend.

    * It's the multi-step process that a computer goes through in order to run a specific task.  It's a building block concept at the fundamental level of computing.

## Socket.io vs Web Sockets

1. What is Elastic Beanstalk?

    * An AWS service that deploys, manages, and scales web apps.

2. Describe the relationship between EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk.

    * Elastic Beanstalk utilizes EC2 as part of its suite of functions.

3. Name some benefits of using Elastic Beanstalk.

    * Ease of use, access to a large amount of supported languages, handles a large amount of details under the hood (such as automatic scaling based on current requirements).
    * Can also choose to control individual factors if you want.

Source: [AWS Elastic Beanstalk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SrwxAScdyT0)

[Return to Table of Contents](https://haydencleaver.github.io/reading-notes/)